So let's begin improving our framework.
So I'm first glance open up the base page just to go over some key points.
So I'm using public static web driver driver here.
And this set driver method is what initializes the driver.
So I'm going to be transferring a lot of this into a new class.
So under the source main Java folder and under the base package, I'm going to right click select new
and select class and this class is going to be called Web Driver Instance and then I'm going to click
Finish.
So as mentioned previously, this new class is what's going to be responsible for initializing the driver.
And I also want to use Fred Local.
So the first thing I'm going to be doing in this class is write in public.
Static.
Fred.
Local points he brackets.
And inside those pointy brackets, I'm going to define the type which is Web driver.
I'm going to give this variable a name of driver equals new.
Fred Local.
Empty pointy brackets, empty round brackets and a semicolon.
So you can see I need to import Web driver.
Once I do that, that ever goes away.
So this is very similar to this line here.
But the key difference is that I'm using Fred local.
So the next thing I need to do is create a new method.
So I'm going to call this method public static web driver.
Get driver.
So this method is going to be responsible for checking the Fred to see if it's in use.
If it's not in use, then we're going to set the Fred local variable to use the driver.
So I'm going to right here.
If.
Driver dot get so get is a Fred local method.
Equals No.
Then I want to do something.
So what I'm going to do is use a tri catch statement.
So I'm going to try.
An open and close embrace.
Driver dot set.
And inside the set brackets, I need to provide a method.
So I haven't got that method yet.
So I'm going to put an X in as a placeholder.
Next after the closing.
Try a brace.
I'm going to write Catch.
And I'm going to have an opening close in bracket.
And inside here I'm going to write my own exception a.
An open and close embrace.
And I'm going to use a parameter.
To print stack trace.
So just to walk you through this again, I'm checking to see if the Fred has the driver set.
So if the Fred is empty so it's not being used, it's going to equal.
No.
And so I never want to set that, Fred.
By using whatever method I place here.
If the driver doesn't equal know so it is in use, then it will execute the catch part.
This statement and it was simply prince in error.
So the next thing I need to do is create another method.
And this method is going to be called public.
Static Web driver.
Create driver.
So this method is going to be responsible for initializing the driver object similar to what we do in
here.
So I need to create a local variable here.
So a local variable can only be accessed from the method that it belongs to.
So I'm going to write Web Driver Driver, and it's going to equal a no value.
After this line and then I need to use or access the config the properties file to know what driver
needs to be initialized.
So I'm going to simply copy this code here from the base page.
And then I'm going to paste it like so.
But you can see there is a error on the prop and that's because I need to define properties.
Then you see it as an error here because we need to add a froze declaration.
And once they decided that error goes away but is still a never at the top here because he's expecting
a return statement.
So once we have that property's variable set, the next thing I'm going to do is go back to the base
page and from this return driver, line up to the first if statement.
I'm going to copy that and I'm going to paste it here like so.
And you can see that those errors have now gone away.
So that's this method complete.
So the only other thing I need to do now is create one more method and to go back and set a method name
into these brackets here.
So at the bottom here, I am going to create a new method which is going to be responsible for cleaning
up the session and removing the variables from the front.
So I'm going to call it public static void clean up driver.
And all I need to simply right here is driver.
Dot get.
Dot.
Quit.
And underneath that lion driver thought remove.
So if I go back up now, you'll remember I have a place holder here, so I am going to set the driver
using this method that I have now created.
So I am going to copy crate driver.
And pace it like so.
And the only other thing that I need to do is add a return statement.
So after this brace here I am going to write a return driver.
Dot gets.
It was semi-colon.
And that is this class now complete.
So let me just walk you through it one more time.
So I've created a new field here that uses Fred local with the name of Driver.
This method named get driver is checking to see if the frets in use.
If it's not in use, then I want to set the driver variable using this great driver method.
If the driver is in-use, then it will show an error.
We've also created a new method here called Create Driver.
And we have set a local variable here.
So if I was to comment this local variable.
Well.
You'll see that there's errors here.
And that's because this driver is referring to this field here instead.
But by using a local variable, these are now using this driver.
So we've seen this before, so I'm not going to talk for it much.
We're doing is access in the conflict properties to find what browser we need to use and it will load
the relevant driver for that particular browser.
Last.
We have a new method here called cleanup driver.
So all this method does is it quits the session for a particular friend and it sets the variable back
to no.
By using the remove fred local method.
So that is this web drive, for instance, class now complete.
In the next lecture, we'll start making some adjustments to the base page.